Non-Censorship Policy
=====================

Policy
------

1.0

The national Flux party, “VOTEFLUX.ORG \| Upgrade Democracy!” and
subsidiary State Parties respect the rights of its members as autonomous
citizens, to engage in public debate in the absence of censorship. It is
not our policy to censor comments, criticisms or debate; as supported in
the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and freedom of political
speech as recognised in Nationwide News Pty Ltd v Wills (1992) 177 CLR
1, the High Court of Australia, except where prohibited under Australian
Law. 1.1

| This policy does not extend to trolling behaviors, which will result
  in being banned, blocked, or removed after two warnings. If the
  trolling behavior appears in a public forum, one warning must be made
  in public forum, the second warning may be public, private or both.
| 1.2

Dispute resolution regarding breaches to our Non-Censorship Policy must
be made with respect to the appropriate Flux Constitution.

2.0

Flux, “VOTEFLUX.ORG \| Upgrade Democracy!”, and its affiliated parties
take no responsibility for the comments of individual persons, except
where necessitated under Australian Law.

2.1

Flux, “VOTEFLUX.ORG \| Upgrade Democracy!”, its affiliated parties, and
authorised agents reserve the right to remove any comments deemed to be
“trolling” comments, or those prohibited under Australian Law.

Purpose The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all stakeholders
understand their rights and obligations when engaging in public forum
hosted by, or in association with the national Flux party and it’s
subsidiary party affiliates. We encourage mutually respectful exchanges,
tolerance, and encourage the use of deliberative discussion and
conscious communication methodologies. It is important that all
individual persons, members and citizens using social media (such as
on-line forums, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube) understand that there are
inherent risks, such as personal defamation, and each individual takes
responsibility for managing the risks.

Scope This policy applies to all stakeholders including Flux members,
candidates, volunteers and the general public. In cases of believing one
is unfairly blocked, note that our Dispute Resolution Policies can be
found in the respective federal, state and/or municipal constitutions,
as required. This policy covers, but is not limited to, the sites and
services mentioned below, and is also intended to cover other social
media services as they develop in the future: social networking sites
(eg Facebook); professional networking services (eg Linkedln); video and
photo sharing websites (eg YouTube); micro-blogging (eg Twitter); forums
and discussion boards (eg Google Groups); online collaborations (eg
Wikipedia); podcasting; blogs.

3.0 Definitions

3.1 Social media includes the various internet-based applications that
allow the creation and exchange of user-generated content. Social media
enables individuals to communicate via the Internet sharing information
and resources. Sites such as Facebook are a social utility that connects
people with family and friends.

3.2 Content is the information that is put onto social media sites,
which includes text, audio, video, images, podcasts and other multimedia
communications.

3.3 Trolling - “Someone who posts inflammatory, extraneous, or off-topic
messages in an online community, such as a forum, chat room, or blog,
with the primary intent of provoking readers into an emotional response
or of otherwise disrupting normal on-topic discussion.” (Wikipedia)

4.0 Procedural instructions regarding use of social media

4.1

Stakeholders should not: make comment as a representative of Flux unless
authorised to do so.

4.2

Just as bullying and harassment will not be tolerated in the physical
world, nor will it be tolerated where it occurs on a social media site.
Please refrain from posting any offensive, obscene, bullying,
discriminatory, hateful, racist, sexist, abusive, harassing, threatening
or defamatory content.

4.3

Participants should always declare a conflict of interest.

4.4

Confidentiality of information. Members are not to divulge or discuss
any confidential or personal information, including information
regarding the Flux party. Volunteers are not to identify or publish
personal details and/or images of Flux members without permission,
except as permitted under Australian Law.

4.5

Under no circumstances are individual persons to use a Flux email
address or logo to purport themselves unless authorised.

5.0 Security risks

Social media sites can contain a significant amount of personal
information. Accordingly, it is in the best interests of members to
ensure appropriate and effective security and/or privacy settings are
maintained. Members need to be mindful that regardless of the
security/privacy settings, content may still be made public (eg a
contact may cut and paste comments onto another site) or may be
illegally accessed by cybercriminals. Furthermore, unintended invitees
may gain access to a social network site through a linked association
(eg friend of a friend). Some individuals and organisations, including
criminal organisations, use social media to mask their true identity and
obtain personal information. It is recommended that members exercise
caution with respect to the type of information that they post on such
sites.

6.0 Reporting

Members who fail to comply with this policy may be subject to counseling
and expulsion. Observers should report any breach of this policy to a
Steering Committee member. The Steering Committee member is to report
any breach of this policy or seek advice from Leadership.

7.0

Review date: the policy is to be reviewed before December 31, 2020.
